In this video we're going to be
running the Union tool and we're
going to be creating the union
between the spawning grounds
layer (the proposed no take zone
layer) and the fishing ground
layer that hopefully you have in
your map now.
So the reason why we're running
the Union tool is because Union
tool, unlike the Merge tool, it
will join the layers together,
but it will also create new
polygons for where the layers
overlap and we're interested in
where these overlaps are and how
much the fishing ground is going
to be reduced by
with this no take zone as we can
only reduce it by a maximum of
25%.
So first of all, let's just
clean up our contents and remove
any layers we don't need.
We don't need this previous
spawning months layer, so we can
remove that and just have the
spawning months erased layer.
And now let's go ahead and open
up the geoprocessing toolbox and
we want to type in Union in the
search bar and click on the
first tool that comes up that
just says Union.
So our input features are going
to be the layers that we're
joining together.
And so that's the spawning
grounds layer and the fishing
ground.
And so we can drag these into
this section here. You can click
on the fishing ground layer,
hold control and click on the
spawning months erase layer at
the same time and then drag them
across into where it says input
features.
So now we can see we've got them
both here.
The next thing we need to do is
choose where to save this and
what to name it.
So like usual, we're going to go
into our Geodatabase and we'll
name it Fishing, spawning Union,
and hit save.
And now this section here we can
choose what information in the
layers' attribute tables we want
in the new layer, that it's
going to create in the attribute
table of the new layer.
And so we're going to choose all
attributes just to keep all of
that information.
And then we'll hit run and now
we can see it's loaded in our
map.
So let's just turn off the
original 2 layers, toggle them
off and just take a look at this
new layer we've created so we
can see that it's merged these
or it's joined these layers
together and we can also see the
boundaries in between the
fishing ground and the spawning
grounds.
Let's open up the attribute
table for this new layer.
And here in the attribute table
we can see that we've got rows
for three polygons.
So if we highlight each row, we
can take a look at what polygons
they're representing.
So we can see this first Polygon
is the fishing ground but minus
the overlapping section.
The 2nd Polygon is the proposed
no take zone but again minus the
overlapping section and the
third Polygon is just the
overlapping section.
So what we want to do is
calculate the area of this
overlap so that we can see how
much the fishing ground would be
reduced by if we kept the
proposed no take zone like this.
So we need to calculate area to
be able to do this.
We already have a column for
area, but we don't know what
units it's in and we don't know
when it was calculated.
So we'll just calculate a new
field so we know that we're
getting the right area
calculation.
So we'll do this how we did it
in the previous lessons For
spatial analysis.
We're going to add a new field
by using this button here, which
is going to bring up this table
window.
So our new column is this row at
the bottom, so we can name it,
so we'll name it area and give
the alias area as well.
The data type is going to be
double as we want a number with
decimal places.
The number format we're going to
have as numeric and we'll reduce
these decimal places down to two
and click OK and then we can
save our changes using this
button at the top here as we're
in the fields tab at the top.
This is what happened when we
opened up the table, it put us
in this Fields tab
automatically.
Now we can shut this and we've
got our column for Area.
So let's calculate the geometry.
So right click on the heading,
the column heading, choose
Calculate geometry.
Our input feature is already put
there, so that's fine.
We just need to put in the
property as area and the field
as area.
The area unit is square
kilometers and the coordinate
system,
we can put this as the current
layer, although our layers and
our map are all in the same
coordinate system, so it doesn't
really matter.
And then hit run and now we've
calculated the area, so for the
overlapping area it's 14.48km
^2.
Now we need to know the area of
the fishing ground, so we're
going to open up the attribute
table for this layer.
We're going to add a new field
like we just did.
Again, we'll put in the field
name and the alias area, the
data type as double, and the
number format as numeric with
two decimal places, and then
we'll hit save.
Shut this box and now we can
calculate the area in here.
So we'll bring up the Calculate
Geometry window.
We've got the fishing ground
here.
The field is area, the property
is area, area units, square
kilometers, and the coordinate
system,
again, we can choose our layer
for this and we'll click, OK, so
now we've got our area
calculation and so now we can do
the calculation to see what
percentage of the total fishing
ground area would be taken away
by this proposed no take zone.
So let's bring up the calculator
and now we can just do our
simple calculation.
So the area of the intersecting
areas divided by the total
fishing ground area times by
100.
And so we know that the fishing
ground would be reduced by 21%.
This is below the 25% maximum
and so we can go ahead with this
proposed no take zone for the
spawning season and that's how
to run a Union tool in Arc GIS
Pro.